In Limenotheosis, you don't play mere mortals fumbling in the dark, you inhabit walking miracles. This system aims to keep the mechanics simple and rules light to give more room for narrative decisions and flourishing descriptions. 
### Time (WIP)
### Contest (WIP)
### Freezeframe (WIP)
### Extended Conflict (WIP)
### Dice rolling: 
This system aims to never force a failure upon you against your permission. This means that dice do not determine the success or failure of their action, the players do. Instead, dice determine the price of your actions, what the world demands back, and players chooses whether or not they're willing to pay that price. 
##### Karmic Influence
Many actions taken by your character do not necessitate the involvement of dice rolls. They will succeed if it is well within the [Capabilities](../2.%20Glossary/Capabilities.md) of your character, such as opening an unlocked door, or walking across the town. 

However, if the action propels the story forward in meaningful ways, and or is a decision that will shift the events of the story significantly one way or another, these actions will gain you Karmic Influence (shortened to Karma from here on out). 

Mechanically, Karma takes the forms of a series of d10 die. This pool of Karma is harmless on its own, and nothing happens when you accumulate them, until you're called to roll them to determine costs. (Rewrite section)
##### Cost
Some actions taken by your character will generate Costs, the system have defined them as:
- Risky action: If the failure of this action will pose a direct threat to the character's wellbeing, physically, mentally, socially, or humanely.
- Hard action: If the action touches upon one, if not multiple of the character's weaknesses, fears, or the character's own tenets. Or, 
- Impossible action: If the action requires a miracle to perform due to being well outside of the character’s defined limits. 

When you're called to calculate costs, you roll your current pool of Karmic Influence. 
- For every 5 or below on a die, your action gains 1 Cost.
- For every pair of 10s, you generate 1 Drive, a shared party resource used to lessen costs.

Players can opt to fail, which then let's the story progress naturally with matching consequences. Or, players can succeed at a cost, knocking down costs according to their character.

To succeed at this costly action, players can utilize resources to lessen the impact, or prepare to pay the price and take on consequences. There are 4 main ways to take on the cost of action: 
- First, checking against the strength of the character, seeing if any of their [Capabilities](../2.%20Glossary/Capabilities.md) can assist in this current action.
- Second, checking against the shared pool of Drive. Drive negate cost at a 1 to 1 ratio.
- Third, checking against the 
- Fourth, pay the cost by receiving consequences. as detailed below.
	- Sublimation: You overreach into your miracles and cause an explosive cosmic imbalance, which creates a new disaster or invites a catastrophe closer.
	- Crystallization: You slowly lose grasp of your humanity and become an existence of pure miracle, synonymous with a walking catastrophe. 
	- Erasure: all injuries and afflictions upon the body and mind. Defects, damages, and scars all belong in this category. 
	- Denial: all identity-related trauma, forcing you to confront your identity and risk losing parts of yourself. 

Each remaining cost contributes to these consequences and fills up a gauge before disaster falls. At 1, 2, or 3 costs in each consequence, disaster looms over you. Once the last cost point tips the gauge over, consequence falls accordingly.

- Sublimation: Immediately gain an omen, elaborated further below. 
- Crystallization: Lose humanity equal to the current Divinity Tier. 
- Erasure: Gain an injury or condition, forcing additional circumstantial die
- Denial: Choose one of the following: Extremify a tenet (narrow the scope, increase the scale, etc), remove a desire, add a fear, remove a strength, or add a weakness.


---

### Miracles: (WIP)

Your set of skills and [Capabilities](../2.%20Glossary/Capabilities.md) informs what type of Miracle you call forth, and with the Miracle, you have a choice to auto-succeed regardless of failures. 

Each player can do this a number of times equal to their Divinity Tier per story, and may gain more uses upon divine ascension (Tier ups). 

---

### Tier Adjustment

Your Divine Tier, when countered by a stronger willpower, may inform how violent the lash back becomes:
- 1 Tier above you: Failure threshold +1 (6 and below)  
- 2 Tiers above: Failure threshold +2 (7 and below)  
- 1 Tier below: Failure threshold -1 (4 and below)  
- 2 Tiers below: Failure threshold -2 (3 and below)

---
### Rest and Omens
To reduce your burden, you may choose to rest. This clears your current Karma dice pool.

However, every time you rest, the GM invokes an Omen to be given to someone who has not yet received one. The Omen is a narrative trigger that they may flip at any time to initiate a Catastrophe (filling up one person’s charges fully). 

---
### Summary
- Generate Karma passively when playing. 
- Roll the Karma pool to determine the Cost of an important action. Every 5 below is a cost, and pairs of 10 nets you a drive.
- Cost can be negated through drives, but can also be taken upon by the character through sublimation, crystallization, erasure, and denial. 
- Players can also expend their usage of a miracle to succeed outright, free of consequences. Though they’re limited in uses, they can recharge upon level up.

Resting can reset your Karma pool, but it also grants the DM one free consequence to use upon any party member.