Who lives in this fractured world?

---
### Origins: Character Concept
Now that we are bringing a miracle to life, we need to first establish some details surrounding this miracle wielder. First, we must figure out who they are before the miracle. To do so, we first establish what their origins are. 
#### Background: Home realm
In previous sections of the book, broad categories of Hellborns, Heavenkins, Kindreds and Fractures have been laid out for you to reference. Your character should largely fall into one of the four categories. Regarding the specific challenges posed in the environment that surrounded your character, or the specific setting of the various risen or sunken places they may be from, trust your imagination, or take from popular media. 

Some good references from popular media are: 
- Gotham (From DC)
- Barbieland (From Barbie, or Barbie Movie)
- Demon Slayer Japan (From Demon Slayer)
- New York, Toronto, Shanghai (From... ya know, Earth)

Having a rough setting in mind that you character is born and raised in is a great starting point. But fret not yourself with logistics and world building, instead, begin thinking about all the ways this living space poses a threat to your character. It may seem odd but this is a world that hates its inhabitants, even if you're in an sanctuary protected by a god. Each micro & macrocosm has their issues, and these issues may pose threats to your character, become obstacles and challenges they cannot overcome, and threatens the core of who they are. 

#### Background: Specialization 
Now comes the important questions, who are you and what do you do? 

Having thought about the type of world you belong to and have since then left, or perhaps escaped from, what made you so special that you could have withstand either surviving in those worlds, or then gave you enough [Capabilities](../2.%20Glossary/Capabilities.md) to have left them? 

Previous sections have laid out some specialization you can pick from, here will be those same examples again: 
- Farmer: Able-bodied, Knowledge (botany)
- Alchemist: Dexterous, Knowledge (alchemy)
- Military General: Commanding, Knowledge (tactic)
- Engineer: Reparation, Knowledge (mechanic)
- Thief: Pick-pocketing, Knowledge (escape routes)
- Lone Survivor: Survival, Knowledge (signs of danger)

Just writing them conceptually for now are great, hold those thoughts, we are about to do deep dive into exactly who you are.
### Touchstones: Humanity
The term Humanity often equates to empathy or being humane, but this system asks you to personally define it for your character. Ruthlessness, viciousness, kindness, joyfulness, these are all qualities of being human. Finding out your definition is an important part of the journey.

This system provides 7 questions to help you come up with your personal answer for your character, and they are divided into Tenets, Motivations, and [Capabilities](../2.%20Glossary/Capabilities.md).
#### Tenets: 
Tenets are the things characters live and die by. They’re your reason fight in this world. 

Limenotheosis defines tenets by asking: 
	- What do you live for?
	- What do you fight for?
	- What would you die for?

These tenets can be revealed through your backstory and your origin, and they can help you create your character retrospectively. Perhaps finding out what matters to them can help you define your origin, and find out what may threaten your character to their core.
#### Motivations: 
All mortals have wants and needs, to be without motivation is to be void of purpose. If you truly have no motivation and no desire, congratulations, you’ve won the game, but unfortunately this game is not for you. 
 
Having considered your character’s tenet and [Capabilities](../2.%20Glossary/Capabilities.md), you may begin to get a feeling of who they are. Now, it’s time to find out what they want. 

Limenotheosis defines motivation into two questions: 
- What are you working towards? 
- What are you running from?

In defining what you are working towards, you’re creating a goal that matters greatly to your character. Perhaps it speaks to one of your tenets, perhaps it pertains to a strength or weakness. It could be extraordinary like world peace, or simple like speaking a new language. However, it is advisable that the initial goal should be connected to a tenet, and just out of reach by your own [Capabilities](../2.%20Glossary/Capabilities.md). This allows for you to create a nuanced reason to be journeying through your story.

What your running from, however, is a fear or a threat of some kind, thus informs of the shortcoming itself. Perhaps your fear kept you from succeeding, perhaps the threat prevents your achievements.  
#### [Capabilities](../2.%20Glossary/Capabilities.md):
[Capabilities](../2.%20Glossary/Capabilities.md) you define now is not an exhaustive list. As your character progress through the story, you will gain them and lose them. Therefore, when creating your character, you’re encouraged but not required to write them.

Limenotheosis asks you to define a list of Strengths and Weaknesses: 
- Strengths will be beneficial to your character, reducing cost, saving you some resource. Weakness does the inverse, potential adding cost to unfavorable outcomes. 
- However, acting in accordance to your strengths and weaknesses, whether be it succeeding or failing, will earn you XP, which contributes to development of character
- Your [Capabilities](../2.%20Glossary/Capabilities.md) may also inform you motivations your character may harbor, and how your tenets are enacted onto the world. They may also inform what your character falls short in, and what threats are posed to your character that they feel impossible to deal with.

You may draw upon Strengths and Weaknesses defined by your Home Realms and Specialization, or draw upon keywords you can think of that describes specific skills or traits.

---

Having defined your Humanity via these 7 questions, it is time to become a miracle wielder.

---
### Becoming a Miracle: Disastrous awakening
Now that we have both the setting and the character figured out, what is their power and how did they obtain it? 
#### [Catalyst](../2.%20Glossary/Catalyst.md)
Having understood your character, creating a catalyst becomes a collaborative effort between you and the GM. A catalyst is a challenge or obstacle that threatens one of your tenet, obstructs a goal, is the source of your fear, or otherwise a problem to your character. The scale and difficulty of this problem is irrelevant so long as your character cannot solve it personally, either due to their innate weaknesses, or it is otherwise beyond their [Capabilities](../2.%20Glossary/Capabilities.md) somehow. 

This catalyst must be something that matters, as the miracle that awakens due to it, the spark, is deeply personal. This is your own willpower at work, so nothing short of your own desperation may turn it into something great.

Catalyst, for the sake of system mechanics (one of the very few), should try to be roughly divided into 9 literary conflicts. These are: 
	- Man vs nature
    - Man vs man
    - Man vs god
    - Man vs society
    - Man vs self
    - Man vs no god
    - Man vs machine 
    - Man vs reality 
    - Man vs author

Most of the stories will be of the first 5, with the latter 4 saved for more circumstantial and creative conflicts. If you see that your conflict doesn’t fit in any of the 9, you may talk with your GM and see what could be done.
##### Examples of Catalyst according to Origin
Hellborn:
- An unavoidable/unsurvivable natural disaster they happened upon. 
- Intentional elimination out of fear or careful planning. 
- Restoration of hell, making it inhabitable to its residents. 

Heavenkin:
- Shift in the domain’s faith and direction through the crusade or godfall
- Constructed a personal attack that targets them for sociopolitical goals.
- Destruction of their domain, resulting in their potential demise

Kindred:
- Awoken in the midst of danger, having no recollection of how it happened.
- Slowly derealization from the world they once knew, as if awoken from a dream. 
- Suddenly, an unexpected change drags them out of their day-to-day life. 

Fractures:
- f
- f
- f
#### Spark: 
We finally arrive at the miracle, the work of wonder that your willpower tore apart the law of the universe just to create. Your spark, the initial burst of your personal miracles, is the supernatural solution to overcome that problem beyond your own [Capabilities](../2.%20Glossary/Capabilities.md). It is birthed from your own desperation, determination, or otherwise. 

The spark is the greatest gift for any mortal, as it marks their first step into being elevated above the rules set in place by everyone. An awakened spark means you are now a fledgling god, and with enough experience, work, and tremendous luck, you may rewrite your own story and be in control. 

A spark could be gained from: 

- Naturally condensed miracle you happen upon. 
- Born out of desperation in a moment of great personal willpower. 
- Given by a special figure of interest, likewise treasure or investment. 

Your spark, for the purpose of game mechanic (the other one of the few), could be divided into 10 categories. Though, the actual power itself is a much more creative collaboration between you and the GM. The specifics of the power is also based on keywords and character development later during the game, for now, feel out your solution according to these ten key categories: 
	- Fate
	- Time
	- Space
	- Spirit
	- Life
	- Death
	- Mind
	- Prime
	- Force
	- Matter

Ultimately, your spark is a toll to solve a specific problem outside of your [Capabilities](../2.%20Glossary/Capabilities.md). However, the consequences of having said spark usually speaks to why you've begun walking this journey. Aside from the vengeful universe looking to eradicate all miracles through catastrophe, you may also receive unique reactions to your spark that drives you away from home. 

However, once you happen upon a spark, the world is going to change how it interacts with you. Before, the world pays you no attention, much like an ant in hidden corners of a room. But now, you are an ant that shines a bright flash light in the human’s eye, and proudly announcing that you will be infesting their room and stealing their food. The world may react in these ways: 
##### Examples of Spark according to Origin
Reaction to hellborn’s spark could be: 
- A barrage of unavoidable/unsurvivable natural disaster. 
- Continuous and intentional elimination.
- Recognition amongst hell with great honor and fortune. 

Reaction to heavenkin’s spark could be: 
- Doctrinal attack of the kin’s spark as illegitimate or heretic
- Promotion and close attention to ensure no one goes rogue.
- Used in various way including war, experiment, and otherwise.

Reaction to kindred’s spark could be: 
Reaction to fracture’s spark could be: 

---

### The Path Forward: Ascension, Relationships and Session 0
Lastly, before your character begins on this journey, there are a couple more things to take care of. 
#### Ascension: Recipe for Disaster
As your character begin their journey, there is the obvious question of how do I improve myself? Normally, you can improve you [Capabilities](../2.%20Glossary/Capabilities.md) by spending XP to earn advances, which turns into more strengths, knocks away weaknesses. However, leveling up your miracle, your divinity, is an intentional process, more details in Segment 5: Divine Ascension. 

To start, you need to define a Recipe for Disaster. This is a checklist of ingredients that you gather along your story. They need a reason to be necessary for your character's ascension, and can serve as story beat or initial goals for your character to begin their journey. 

However, it is not necessary for short term games where Ascension may not even be possible. One shots or One-Arc stories may use these as the final goal. Stories or Chronicles may have the need for many recipes to use as progressive goals before the final story beat. 
#### Relationships: Your fellow Players (WIP)
Roleplaying games often require interactions, and what better time to set some boundaries and create team synergy than character creation. 
#### Session 0: Summary


### Quickstart: Character Creation Summary
Answer the following questionnaire for a quick character creation: 

- What is your origin?
	- What kind of world/realm/microcosm are you from. 
	- What was your specialization? 
- What are your tenets?
	- What would you live/fight/die for?
- What are your motivations?
	- What are you working towards/running from?
- What are your [Capabilities](../2.%20Glossary/Capabilities.md)?
	- What's your strength/weakness?
- What is your [Catalyst](../2.%20Glossary/Catalyst.md)? 
	- An obstacle you cannot overcome with your mortal strength.
- What is your spark
	- The miraculous solution that's now bound to you.

Then, 
* Set you Humanity to 100 
* Set you Divinity to the appropriate Tier for play as determined at your table
* Create your Recipe for Disaster 
* Draft up Relationships at the table.