*In Limenotheosis, every hero begins as a person, with a soul, with scars, with something they refuse to let go of. However, divinity tempts them, because power is necessary, power is beautiful, and power is corrosive.*

---
### What Makes You Human

Humanity isn’t about fragility—it’s about choice, conviction, and cost. In Limenotheosis, each character is defined in  three core dimensions: tenets, motivations, and capabilities.
##### Tenets
- What do you live for? (Self-preservation)  
- What do you fight for? (Belief or Tenet)  
- What would you die for? (Willpower or Sacrifice)
##### Capabilities
- What defines your strength?  
- What defines your weakness?
##### Motivations
- What are you working toward?  
- What are you running from? 


---

### Humanity: A Limited Resource

Humanity is worth protecting. It is your tether to what made you mortal, and what makes you matter.

But in your journey to ascend, there will be moments when holding on means letting go of something else. If you must rise but have not met the divine requirements, you may spend humanity to climb.

But beware: once humanity is gone, you may still walk the world—but you are no longer different from the miracles you wield and disasters you prevent.


---

### Divinity: Power Without Peace

Divinity is a measure, divinity is a tool, but more importantly, divinity is the representation of your force of will manifested and actualized into power.

Your Tiers of Divinity informs others how much sway you have over the world’s function, similar to how the mass of a celestial body bends the space-time around it. The more dense you are in Divinity, the more sure you are in your will and the less you will allow distractions and influences in your personal design. 

Still, the world always lashes out at any who dares challenge its authority and warps its plans through perverted and unnatural means. Great as you are in your divinity, the world can still strike at your design in different ways. It may not be able to push a coin to heads or tails, but it can certainly wear away at your care for the result in the first place. Sometimes, it can gently sway the coin to land on its side. 

The more likely case is that, to have achieved that higher divinity, your character would have likely suffered many sacrifices to be here. Those could be tenets you’ve lost, goals you’ve given up, blood, sweat, and tears you’ve shed. Or, the loss of humanity in general. Your Divinity is simultaneously an expression of power and an indication of sacrifices.